#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{color}
\newcommand{\nicefrac}[2]{\ensuremath ^{#1}\!\!/\!_{#2}}
\usepackage { fancybox}

\renewcommand{\floatpagefraction}{0.95}
\renewcommand{\textfraction}{0}
\renewcommand{\topfraction}{1}
\renewcommand{\bottomfraction}{1}
\end_preamble
\options 12pt, round,comma,sort&compress
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics dvipdf
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
A mimetic discretisation of the fully compressible Euler equations over
 orography with implicit treatment of acoustic and gravity waves
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Hilary Weller and Ava Shahrokhi
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Solution techniques for the fully compressible Euler equations with implicit
 treatment of acoustic and gravity waves have been around for many years
 but are still not used by many weather and climate forecasting centres.
 These techniques offer long stable time-steps in the presence of strong
 stratification.
 It is hypothesised that these techniques are not commonly used because
 they appear to be very complicated, relying on perturbations from time
 varying mean states.
 The approach is simplified and derived without reliance on mean and perturbatio
n variables using the flux form as well as the advective form of the entropy
 equation, making conservation more straightforward to achieve.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using terrain following layers over orography, the pressure gradient error
 is avoided by using terrain following velocity as a prognostic variable
 rather than horizontal velocity.
 This formulation leads to curl free pressure gradients which avoids spurious
 circulations associated with terrain following coordinates over orography.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Results demonstrating the merits of these approaches will be presented.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
